feat: experimental i18n routing (#8974)
withastro/astro: .changeset/rude-lizards-scream.md

> ---
> 'astro': minor
> ---
> 
> Add experimental support for i18n routing. Enable the routing by adding the mandatory fields to the configuration:
> 
> ```js
> // astro.config.mjs
> import {defineConfig} from "astro/config";
> 
> export default defineConfig({
>     experiemntal: {
>         i18n: {
>             defaultLocale: "en",
>             locales: ["en", "en_AU", "es", "pt", "fr"]
>         }
>     }
> })
> ```
> 
> The properties `defaultLocale` and `locales` are mandatory, and `locales` must contain the `defaultLocale`.
> 
> Now, all routes that **don't** contain a prefix (locale) in their URL will belong to the `defaultLocale`, and the translated routes will have to have a prefix in their URL: `/en_AU`, `/es`, `/pt`, `/fr`.
> 
> You have access to a new virtual module called `astro:i18n`, which exposes utility functions to create correct URLs, which are computed based on your configuration.
> 
> ```astro
> ---
> import {getLocaleRelativeUrl} from "astro:i18n";
> const aboutUrl = getLocaleRelativeUrl("en_AU", "getting-started");
> console.log(aboutUrl); // will log "/en-au/getting-started
> ---
> ```
> 
> You have access to two new properties in the `Astro` global: `Astro.preferredLocale` and `Astro.preferredLocaleList`. These are locales computed from the `Accept-Langauge` header, and supported by your website. You will never receive locales that aren't configured in your website.
> 
> ```astro
> ---
> const preferredLocale = Astro.preferredLocale;
> const preferredLocaleList = Astro.preferredLocaleList;
> ---
> ```

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
---
'astro': minor
---

Experimental support for i18n routing. 

Astro's experimental i18n routing allows you to add your multilingual content with support for configuring a default language and URL path convention, computing relative page URLs, and accepting preferred languages provided by your visitor's browser browser.

Enable the experimental routing option by adding an `i18n` object to your Astro configuration with a default location and a list of all languages to support:

```js
// astro.config.mjs
import {defineConfig} from "astro/config";

export default defineConfig({
    experimental: {
        i18n: {
            defaultLocale: "en",
            locales: ["en", "es", "pt_BR"]
        }
    }
})
```

Organize your content folders by locale, including your `defaultLocale` and `src/pages/index.astro` will now automatically default to the `index.astro` file of your default language.

```
├── src
│   ├── pages
│   │   ├── en
│   │   │   ├── about.astro
│   │   │   ├── index.astro
│   │   ├── es
│   │   │   ├── about.astro
│   │   │   ├── index.astro
│   │   ├── pt_BR
│   │   │   ├── about.astro
│   │   │   ├── index.astro
│   ├── index.astro

```

Compute relative URLs for your links with `getLocaleRelativeURL` from the new `astro:i18n` module:

```astro
---
import {getLocaleRelativeUrl} from "astro:i18n";
const aboutUrl = getLocaleRelativeUrl("pt_Br", "about");
---
<p>Learn more <a href={aboutURL}>About</a> this site!</p>
```

Enabling i18n routing also provides two new properties for browser language detection: `Astro.preferredLocale` and `Astro.preferredLocaleList`. These combine the browser's `Accept-Langauge` header, and your site's list of supported languages and can be used to automatically respect your visitor's preferred languages.

```astro
---
const preferredLocale = Astro.preferredLocale;
const preferredLocaleList = Astro.preferredLocaleList;
---
NEED A USAGE EXAMPLE HERE
```

Read more about Astro's [experimental i18n routing](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/i18n-routing/#browser-language-detection) in our documentation.
``````

---
'astro': minor
---

Experimental support for i18n routing. 

> Astro's experimental i18n routing allows you to add your multilingual content with support for configuring a default language and URL path convention, computing relative page URLs, and accepting preferred languages provided by your visitor's browser browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro’s experimental i18n routing API allows you to add your multilingual content with support for configuring a default language, computing relative page URLs, and accepting preferred languages provided by your visitor’s browser. You can also specify fallback languages on a per-language basis so that your visitors can always be directed to existing content on your site.
```
I realized we didn't mention fallback, which is a cool thing!

---
'astro': minor
---

Experimental support for i18n routing. 

Astro's experimental i18n routing allows you to add your multilingual content with support for configuring a default language and URL path convention, computing relative page URLs, and accepting preferred languages provided by your visitor's browser browser.

> Enable the experimental routing option by adding an `i18n` object to your Astro configuration with a default location and a list of all languages to support:
> 
> ```js
> // astro.config.mjs
> import {defineConfig} from "astro/config";
> 
> export default defineConfig({
>     experimental: {
>         i18n: {
>             defaultLocale: "en",
>             locales: ["en", "es", "pt_BR"]
>         }
>     }
> })
> ```
> 
> Organize your content folders by locale, including your `defaultLocale` and `src/pages/index.astro` will now automatically default to the `index.astro` file of your default language.
> 
> ```
> ├── src
> │   ├── pages
> │   │   ├── about.astro
> │   │   ├── index.astro
> │   │   ├── es
> │   │   │   ├── about.astro
> │   │   │   ├── index.astro
> │   │   ├── pt_BR
> │   │   │   ├── about.astro
> │   │   │   ├── index.astro
> ```
> 
> Compute relative URLs for your links with `getLocaleRelativeURL` from the new `astro:i18n` module:
> 
> ```astro
> ---
> import {getLocaleRelativeUrl} from "astro:i18n";
> const aboutUrl = getLocaleRelativeUrl("pt_Br", "about");
> ---
> <p>Learn more <a href={aboutURL}>About</a> this site!</p>
> ```

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
Enable the experimental routing option by adding an `i18n` object to your Astro configuration with a default location and a list of all languages to support:

```js
// astro.config.mjs
import {defineConfig} from "astro/config";

export default defineConfig({
    experimental: {
        i18n: {
            defaultLocale: "en",
            locales: ["en", "es", "pt-br"]
        }
    }
})
```

Organize your content folders by locale depending on your `i18n.routingStrategy`, and Astro will handle generating your routes and showing your preferred URLs to your visitors.
```
├── src
│   ├── pages
│   │   ├── about.astro
│   │   ├── index.astro
│   │   ├── es
│   │   │   ├── about.astro
│   │   │   ├── index.astro
│   │   ├── pt-br
│   │   │   ├── about.astro
│   │   │   ├── index.astro
```

Compute relative URLs for your links with `getLocaleRelativeURL` from the new `astro:i18n` module:

```astro
---
import {getLocaleRelativeUrl} from "astro:i18n";
const aboutUrl = getLocaleRelativeUrl("pt-br", "about");
---
<p>Learn more <a href={aboutURL}>About</a> this site!</p>
```
``````
Updates based on last minute changes to docs PR!

    }
})
```

Organize your content folders by locale, including your `defaultLocale` and `src/pages/index.astro` will now automatically default to the `index.astro` file of your default language.

```
├── src
│   ├── pages
│   │   ├── en
│   │   │   ├── about.astro
│   │   │   ├── index.astro
│   │   ├── es
│   │   │   ├── about.astro
│   │   │   ├── index.astro
│   │   ├── pt_BR
│   │   │   ├── about.astro
│   │   │   ├── index.astro
│   ├── index.astro

```

Compute relative URLs for your links with `getLocaleRelativeURL` from the new `astro:i18n` module:

```astro
---
import {getLocaleRelativeUrl} from "astro:i18n";
const aboutUrl = getLocaleRelativeUrl("pt_Br", "about");
---
<p>Learn more <a href={aboutURL}>About</a> this site!</p>
```

Enabling i18n routing also provides two new properties for browser language detection: `Astro.preferredLocale` and `Astro.preferredLocaleList`. These combine the browser's `Accept-Langauge` header, and your site's list of supported languages and can be used to automatically respect your visitor's preferred languages.

```astro
---
const preferredLocale = Astro.preferredLocale;
const preferredLocaleList = Astro.preferredLocaleList;
---

> NEED A USAGE EXAMPLE HERE

Reviewer: Can you please add a very tiny example of using these (you can choose to only use one of them in the example!) ?

Or I suggest we remove the code example entirely. Without showing usage, this doesn't add very much, and we do list the properties in the paragraph.

Either choice is fine! Whichever you prefer!

```

> Read more about Astro's [experimental i18n routing](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/i18n-routing/#browser-language-detection) in our documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read more about Astro's [experimental i18n routing](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/internationalization/) in our documentation.
```
Changed the page name for docs!
